It's been said that attachment to the material world
is at the root of most of our suffering.
Eco-phiolospher extraordinaire Peter Russell
tells us why in this conversation
about the art of letting go.
Peter says part of the problem is that
the media is constantly telling us what we're lacking,
which creates a sense of need that is false is nature.
From there he tells us how to unplug from what's not real,
and anchor into what is.
As a species,
we seem to have an issue with letting go.
Letting go of things, letting go of each other,
letting go of emotions, we have many attachments.
And this is something
you've given a great amount of thought to.
So, why is it that we're so afraid of letting go,
as a jumping off place here.
Why are we so afraid?
I think we think we're going to lose something.
Rather than gain something.
And I think the other side of the question is,
why do we hold on?
Why do we hold on?
And we hold on to things because we think,
if there's something we're clinging to,
that I must have this,
and that's one thing we hold on to,
we get attached to things we want.
We think that's gonna make us happy,
so if we let go of that wanting,
we think we might not achieve what we're gonna get.
Very true,
it seems like we don't have a compass for getting,
except by wanting.
So what's intrinsically wrong with that picture?
Well, two things.
First of all,
the letting go actually gets us what we want.
Because ultimately what we want
is to feel okay, to be at peace,
and what the holding on does, always, the clinging,
it creates a tension in the mind, of some kind or another.
And when you let go, there's a relaxation,
there's a release.
And so we actually get what we want,
which is to feel more at ease.
The reason we hold on is,
we've got this belief system
which I think is indoctrinated into us
from the moment we're born,
that says if we get things just right,
if I can control the world, if I can control other people,
if I can get these things, whatever it is,
I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be happy.
So it's that belief that keeps us holding on,
that keeps us clinging to things.
And clinging to each other.
Yes, very much.
We cling to each other,
we think this person is going to make me feel better,
give me what I want in some way or another.
And so we hold on to people,
rather than necessarily holding on to relationships,
we hold on to how we think they should be,
what they should do,
and so we end up trying to manipulate them.
As you say,
that's where control comes in doesn't it?
Yes, in a way our whole consciousness
is a control consciousness.
The condition consciousness
that we adopted in the western world
is a control conscious.
It's about if I can remain
in control of my world, and what's happening,
then I'm going to be okay.
I will guarentee myself happiness.
If I'm not in control,
I'm gonna suffer, I'll feel pain.
And so we end up, the whole time,
in this controlling, manipulative mode of consciousness.
And as I say, all it does,
it makes us more tense, more stressed.
And even if we do get something,
we feel okay for a little bit,
and then it comes back in again, it comes back in again.
Isn't that the hallmark of materialism?
Yes, absolutely.
That's why we're materialist,
because we're continually looking, thinking
if I just had enough of the right things, I'll be okay.
And so we become human havings,
and human doings, rather than human beings.
We're so busy looking to get the right thing.
Very well put.
So in this materialistic world we're still a part of.
Having to make a paycheck.
Having to take care of the essentials in life.
How should it go,
in terms of finding that balance between doing and being?
I think, well there's many things here.
One, we can create a balance in our daily life.
Because actually recognizing that what happens is,
we need to get sucked into doing doing doing the whole time.
Is to actually gives ourselves a bit of time to be.
And that doesn't even need to be fifteen minutes.
It can be five minutes,
five seconds, to just stop.
And being for me,
is comng back to being with the experience of the moment.
And always the experience of the moment is in the body.
And we come back to the body.
And just feel it.
Feel what the breath is doing.
What do our hands feel like?
What's happening in our chest?
What are we feeling?
So if we open up to the experience of the feeling,
we're back in the present moment.
And I think if you just did that for 10 seconds,
10 times a day, it would be a healthy start.
Get into that habit of coming back to what is.
Goers just go on and on and on,
in this loop the whole time.
Eckhart Tolle's work about
The Power of Now, being in the now,
this is a theme that's coming up.
It doesn't really seem to matter
who you read or who you listen to,
the notion of being present seems to be
where most of the answers lie.
Which is what all the great prophets and masters have said.
Exactly.
And as Eckhart says, and many of other people have said,
it's our thinking that takes us out of the present.
If you look at your thoughts,
your thoughts are always about
something that has happened,
something that went on in the past.
It could even be something that happened two seconds ago,
or two years ago, or something in the future.
What might happen, what might not happen.
How somebody is gonna be,
what are you gonna think of me, must plan to do this.
We're never in the present moment when we're thinking.
In some ways, our thoughts are all in the present moment.
Because the thought itself is right now.
If I'm thinking about the past,
my memory is in the present.
So in some tenses, we're always in the present moment,
but their attention isn't.
So we get caught up in that.
And as soon as we do that,
we lose sight of the present.
We then get caught up in the story,
like it's a movie in our mind
that we're telling ourselves about
what we should have done, or that was good,
or praising ourselves for something.
But all of that keeps us away from the present,
when you're in the present,
that chatter, that internal chatter of the mind isn't there.
What about the process
of creating in the present.
I think part of the reason people
have their minds going overtime
is they're attempting to create in that way.
To create prosperity, to create whatever it is,
an affect of some kind.
Right, which is future thinking again.
That's doing something in order
that the future may be better.
Now there's a very important point
of being in the present doesn't mean
not considering the future, and one's own future welfare,
and the welfare of others.
It means accepting your experience in that moment as it is.
People often think being in the present is
"Oh there's injustices in the world,
"but it doesn't matter, I'm just accepting them."
It doesn't mean that at all.
It may be, there's many things we need to do,
maybe in terms of injustice or changing things,
maybe in terms of own career, of things we need to do.
But in this moment,
our experience is what it is,
what we get caught up in is,
"Oh I don't want my experience to be like this"
If I'm experiencing suffering because of injustice,
we get into "Oh I must do something about this",
rather than "Hey, what's happening right now
"is an experience of pain, suffering."
Be with that, the present doesn't have to be wonderful.
But when you do that, there's an ease to it
What we tend to do,
is when we have an experience we don't like we resist it.
We fight it.
Rather than just saying, "Okay, this is it."
And often when you do,
you find the experience you're resisting
is actually not as bad as you thought.
A good example with pain.
If we have a pain in the knee, or the shoulder or something,
what we tend to do is,
pain is uncomfortable, we resist it, we block it,
we don't want to experience it.
If you do the opposite,
if you say "Okay, what is this?"
Let me be curious, let me be interested.
What is this pain?
And you can say,
"Oh it's got a sharp bit here, a dull bit there."
And then you find things start moving around a bit,
it starts getting interesting,
and then before you know it
your mind is off somewhere else and the pain is gone.
So you move through it
much more quickly if you don't resist.
Like most things,
you move through it if you don't resist it.
And this for me is part of letting go.
For me, the first thing about letting go
is to actually let it in.
We do the opposite.
We think letting go is getting rid of something.
But letting go of feelings or attachments, whatever it is,
you can't let go of something
until you've actually let it in.
What we tend to do,
we think letting go is getting rid of,
I think it's the opposite.
Letting go is letting in the experience.
Noticing if it's some suffering or something,
or if there's some attachment.
Noticing it, noticing how you feel,
noticing what the clinging is like.
If it's something you don't like, some aversion,
you're getting annoyed at somebody.
Notice that, let in the feeling,
whatever it is, the annoyance.
We must innately know this,
because anybody that, for example has tried clinging
to say a relationship of some kind
that's not working for them anymore,
knows the pain of that clinging.
Yeah, so you let in that pain.
You let in the pain of the clinging.
That helps the letting go.
If you really let that in.
And then the second thing that we'll say,
is to let be, let it in.
And then the letting be is accepting it, seeing what it is.
And that frees us up, much more easily.
How does this extend into
our view of the world, the planet and ecology.
Because I know this is something that you're very
not only knowledgeable about, but also very concerned about.
We have some real timelines coming up in the future.
We've already set these things in motion.
Let's talk about the art of letting go
as applies to our larger picture.
The first thing is that doesn't mean
just saying "Well everything is okay.
Let it roll out in this awful way."
It's not that at all.
There's a lot that we need to do.
A lot of things that need changing.
There's a lot of people working on that.
So it's not letting go in terms of giving it up.
It's more in terms of our experience in the moment.
What are we attached to?
Because when we're attached to something,
what attachment does,
it colors our being.
It colors our consciousness.
And we start getting anxious, fearful, whatever.
We start resisting things.
We start getting annoyed
because things aren't the right way.
That can often be an impediment
to us really doing change.
If we get our minds all screwed up and tight,
often then when we act,
we're acting out of anger, or-
Desperation?
Yes
If we can notice those feelings,
let the feelings in, see what they are,
we can actually step back a little bit.
And when we step back,
we can get more in touch with ourselves,
with who we actually are.
We can get more in touch with our own values,
with what's important to us.
We can get in touch with our own creativity,
our own insights.
And from that, I think, we are able
to come and make change in the world much better.
If we're trying to make change,
and we're just screwed up
and frightened and angry and whatever and tense,
we're not going to make the best decisions.
If we can just step back and be in touch with ourselves.
And are we collectively doing this?
As a species, we collectively are holding on to ways of life
that aren't serving us.
Yes we are.
Holding on to consumption patterns,
whatever it is particularly in terms of our cars,
holding on to using cars,
which may be consuming much more than we need to.
Consuming products we don't need to.
And again, the question that I find useful to ask people,
which helps letting go is,
if there's something you really think,
you have to have this thing, this product,
something you think you've got to buy.
And yet the inner voice is just saying uh-uh, uh-uh,
there's that little bit. we always know,
there's the inner wisdom that knows.
That is true,
you know I don't really need this, yeah.
There's two questions.
First question is,
if I got this, whatever it is, this new jacket,
this whatever we think we're gonna need, a bigger car,
would I really be happy?
And if you look at that question,
the answer usually is no,
maybe for a little bit,
but in the end it wouldn't really
make my life significantly better.
And then the opposite question is
if I don't have it, can I still be happy?
And the answer to that is nearly always yes.
And that helps free us up.
And one of the things-
It's a good exercise, simple and direct.
Good exercise.
Just those two things,
if I have this will it make me happy,
and if you look at it you realize, not much.
And if I don't have it, can I still be happy?
And that's the crucial one,
because what happens in our culture,
we tell ourselves that we're missing something.
And in our culture, all the marketing, the adverts we see,
they're all saying to us,
"You can't be satisfied with what you have.
"There's something that's missing.
"And if you buy this product, this credit card,
"this insurance policy, whatever it is,
"you are gonna feel better.
"You can't feel perfect as you are."
And so we create a sense of lack.
Or they help create a sense of lack.
We buy into that.
And then we make ourselves feel uncomfortable.
There's something missing in our life.
We create suffering for ourselves.
So what we do,
we go out and get that thing,
we buy that thing, whatever it is, that service.
That someone else has told us we needed.
Or we may not have known we had to have that prior to that.
And we get it, and for a short while we feel better.
And we think that reason we're feeling better
is because getting that whatever it was, that jacket,
made us feel better.
The truth is,
all that happened was,
we were making ourselves feel uncomfortable, discontent.
Now temporarily we stopped making ourselves feel discontent.
But there's a thousand other things coming in,
and 10 minutes later, 10 days later,
we're going to feel discontent again.
But that's what happens.
We create discontent for ourselves over the way things are.
And then try to get rid of that discontent by doing things.
Whereas if we can just see that,
we don't have to do it.
Because the discontent is what is stopping us being happy.
You're so right,
and I've even noticed the last several years
as spring time comes,
and yeah girly things,
you want a new skirt or dress or something like that,
I'll go shopping and come back
with maybe a dress and a sweater or whatnot,
but I always feel depleted,
I don't feel good after I've done it.
It's a rare occassion where I'll go and purchase something
and actually feel better.
In fact, something about the experience makes me feel worse.
Like my being has just participated in something
that's not really healthy.
I don't understand.
It's completely subconscious.
I don't know if I have a belief system
on a conscious level about that.
Well it could be two things.
One, just a lot of those stores, being in them.
With all the energy in them,
the air-conditioning, there's that side.
I know when I go in stores, I feel tired because of them.
But secondly, and probably more importantly,
you know deep inside that that isn't really the way.
You know you didn't really need that,
or you didn't quite need so many of them, whatever it is.
When we're not being true to our inner self,
we feel a discontent.
We all feel that,
when we're not actually living out our truth.
And that comes on many levels,
including even just having communication with each other.
Being manipulative in conversation,
again this desire to win, to dominate.
We have these attachments even in this way.
And that's where, when we let go,
and what happens when you let go,
you come back into the present.
And that need to judge, to dominate,
to weigh people up, to control them,
isn't there anymore, or not nearly so much.
Because back in the present,
you are what you're looking for,
there's that inner fulfillment,
and it's not this huge great big bliss thing that happens
and you're totally taken over.
It's just a very very quiet, gentle fulfillment, which says
"Things are okay, things are okay."
In this moment, as I say,
it doesn't mean to say you don't need to change things,
and do things and live your life.
But right at this moment, things are okay.
I don't need to put this person in a category,
or whatever it is, judge them,
or say even I should be doing this.
Right now it's okay.
And when we've got that okayness with us,
we don't have to go out and look for it.
And that's what we're doing.
We're looking for the things to make us okay,
rather than recognizing deep inside us
is what we're looking for.
But it's covered up the whole time,
by all the thoughts, things we're telling ourselves,
the judgements, the grievances, the hopes.
All this stuff.
We're so busy thinking thinking thinking, worrying.
Feeling this, feeling that.
Trying.
Trying is a very important one.
We don't actually give ourselves the opportunity to notice
what is there all along.
And if we go to the place of knowing
that everything is just fine in that moment as it is,
that's where we gain our clarity
to be able to start making truly intelligent decisions
about our lives, each other, our planet.
Because then we're free.
When we're not in that,
when we're caught up in our thinking, we're not free.
We're controlled by the stories we're telling ourselves,
by the automatic thinking patterns.
And we are very much on automatic.
We often don't realize it's happening.
And the strange thing is,
most of our thoughts are about ourselves
in one way or another.
And the irony is,
all the time we're caught up in thinking,
we're not actually aware of ourselves.
Like that Mark Twain quote.
"I've had many tragedies in my life,
most of which never occured."
RIght, but while we're so busy worrying about them
you're not here, you're not in touch with yourself.
So let's extend this out now as a culture.
It's being reinforced all the time,
that well we know things are about to change,
we've watched the prices of gasoline double, even triple
in some cases in just the last couple or three years.
So now this is threatening a way of life
to which we feel entitled.
Now what?
We're gonna have to let go of some of that.
Which means, when we hold on to,
we think, you say, we're entitled to it.
Things are gonna have to change.
And we don't know quite how it's going to look.
But, what seems pretty certain
is the price of oil is going to keep increasing,
that's gonna run all the way through society.
Oil is factored into virtually everything.
If it's not made from oil,
transport is in the price,
so we're gonna find-
And we have reached that peak oil point,
according to many.
We have I think yes,
I mean the forecast is
that when the production reaches its peak,
and the demand is still going up,
then the only thing that can happen,
which is very very basic economics 101, class one,
supply and demand, the price goes up.
We can't increase production much more,
the demand is gonna keep going,
so the price is gonna keep going up and up and up.
And that means things generally,
cost of living is gonna get much more expensive.
Which means things are gonna be harder,
we aren't gonna have all the things we're used to.
We can look at that and say,
"Oh my God, I'm gonna suffer",
and we can create a lot of pain for ourselves over that.
Or we can begin to look and say this basic question
"If I don't have some of these things I'm used to,
or think I'm entitled to,
can I still be at peace?"
And I think the answer is yes.
It's interesting,
some of the most happy, fulfilled people I know
are people who live very close to the edge financially.
And a lot of the people I know who have great wealth,
they are not nearly as peaceful.
Great fear of losing that-
Great fear of losing the wealth, they're holding on.
They're holding on to their wealth.
Are they going to get burgled
and lose their famous paintings?
What's going to happen to the stock market?
My friend who just pumps gas,
she doesn't care what happens to the stock market.
She hasn't gotten any important pictures to be stolen,
she hasn't a great insurance policy to keep up.
Her brand new Mercedes isn't gonna get scratched,
she hasn't got one.
There's an ease in that simplicity.
We believe that, "Oh if I was rich,
"if I was a millionaire I'd be happy."
A few are, a few are,
but it's nothing to do with the fact they're rich.
They're just the people who know
how to be at ease with what they have.
And as you say, this world we're in,
this isn't supposition,
these aren't wild predictions anymore,
this is a reality that we're being faced with now.
And there's an interesting documentary out
called The End of Suburbia,
it's been out for a couple of years, have you seen that?
No I haven't.
What they're talkin about is,
what happens to our culture when peak oil occurs?
Which, they only debate within a short window of time,
most agree we're already there,
basically the end of the 3000 mile caeser salad,
as they say, is finished.
And so, let's look at how we might invite that reality in,
because it's coming upon us pretty quickly now.
And look at how we can make the best of that,
and actually turn that into a benefit, a positive.
How can our lives change for the better
with peak oil and all of its ramifications?
I think it's an invitation for us
to look within and to explore ourselves
and wake up more.
I think the two things that's demanding of us,
is one, flexibility.
Things are gonna change.
And we need to better move with the changes.
What we tend to do is hold on to the past.
This is how things have been in the past,
we hold on to our image
of how they're gonna be in the future.
We need to be able to say
"Maybe it's not gonna be like that.
"Maybe I got to look at things in a different way."
So we're gonna learn to become flexible.
And that is about not holding on.
So, developing flexibility.
And the second thing I think we need to develop
is an inner stability.
Which means we're not thrown around in motion by things.
That if the price for oil goes up more,
and there's certain things
that maybe we can't afford or are not available,
that is the way it is.
Not to then get all emotionally screwed up,
and make ourselves suffer even more, and more tension.
Because I think the key thing is to realize
that nearly all our suffering is self-created.
Not our pain, but our suffering
is our discontent and what we feel, that's self-created.
So it's a chance to really step back and see that.
And if we can really see that,
then I think we're doing great spiritual work,
if we can really see the extent to which
we create our discontent, our anxiety,
our frustration, our aversions.
We can see that.
By placing judgements?
Yeah.
If we can see that, just stepping back.
That's 50 percent of it, always,
is the recognition of what's going on.
You say "Ah, instead of being trapped
"in this story I'm telling myself about
"I have to have this or it's the end of the world."
It's realizing it's not the end of the world.
And maybe I can actually feel better in it.
It seems like that,
as I have for years
looked at what it might be like down the road,
and now we're closer to that.
It seems to me there's a golden opportunity here
to, as you say, find our own humanity,
find our own internal stability,
but not only that,
build a different kind of community,
become involved with growing crops,
growing vegetables in our backyard.
Let grandma and grandpa live with us.
What's wrong with these things?
We've let go of all of these things.
Do you have some ideas about all this?
I think that's the third element, is community, support.
What gets us through difficult times
is nearly always community.
I was speaking to a friend who lived in Zagreb,
through the war there in the 1990s.
And she was running a chain of health food stores.
The first ones in Yugoslavia, interestingly enough,
organic food stores.
She saw three of her four stores bombed out.
And I said "How did you survive that emotionally?"
And she said "Be able to sit down with friends,
"and have a cup of tea and talk about it."
It was friends that got her through,
it wasn't money or whatever, it was her friends.
Time and time again it's community,
it's friends that's so important.
Do you think in a sense we've,
because of our attachments
and because of our tryingness and doingness,
that we've actually lost some of the
true understanding of what constitutes friendship,
genuine friendship?
I think we have, we've lost community.
I see many people in the US.
They live in, "communities", housing communities.
All they know about their neighbor is the car they drive.
Because they see them
backing out of the drive each morning going off to work.
They probably didn't even see them
because they come out the garage.
Yet you might be living only 15 feet apart.
Yeah.
Whereas the old communities,
we're everybody knew each other, and support each other.
I grew up in a village in England
where if anybody needed anything...
I now live on a boat in a harbor,
which again is a natural community.
Everybody knows everybody,
you're there to support.
If I leave my car headlights on,
someone comes and bangs on the boat
and says "Hey you left your lights on."
That's community, is people supporting each other.
And we're going to be needing this.
We need to start actually addressing this subject now,
rather than waiting 'till it's a little late,
or you're neighbor has lettuce and you don't. (laughs)
Always it's good to have community.
Get to know your people, support each other.
Again, we're so busy doing,
we get into this insular way of life.
I know you've
given a lot of thought to this,
so I'm going to ask your prescription
for the view of the future that we are entering.
How are you personally approaching it,
and how do you feel the rest of us should approach it.
Kind of boom boom boom.
What do we need to do to get through?
And not only that, but thrive,
and perhaps even recover big parts of ourselves
in the times that lie ahead.
For me, I think it's what I just said,
about learning, looking within ourselves.
Developing ourselves, that's the key thing.
There's many things to be done out there,
whether it's about developing alternative energy sources,
using less thirsty cars, whatever it is,
looking at our consumption.
But for me, the key thing is coming back to ourselves.
Looking at ourselves,
looking at what do we really want, that's the first thing.
And what we all really want,
is this thing of how do we feel inside.
And then saying "Okay, what am I doing
to support my inner well-being?"
That's the key thing.
If we're feeling better inside,
we're feeling more stable, secure inside,
then the way we live life's gonna be different.
So looking inside, what do I really need
to support my inner well-being?
How can I become more flexible?
How can I become less attached
to how I think things should be?
When you notice attachments,
just step back a bit, see that,
see the attachment, and then see what it's doing to you.
See the tension it's creating.
There's an old Buddhist saying,
"If you pick up a hot coal,
"you drop it because it's hot,
"because you feel the pain."
But if you're numb you don't drop it, it burns you.
If we can see what our clinging
to a certain way of life or attitude towards other people,
what that's doing to us,
if we can feel the tension it's creating,
the stress, the pain it's creating,
then we want to let go of it.
We have the motivation to let go,
because we see it's actually not giving us what we want.
So, that's one thing.
I think another very important tool
we can always take with us,
whatever situation we're in,
if there's some friction, tension, not quite right,
is a very important question I always hold,
"Is there another way of looking at this?"
Not to say what is another way,
but if I'm stuck it's nearly always because
I'm stuck in a mindset, a belief system, an attitude,
the ego-mind has got hold of me and is saying,
"This is the way to see things."
And that's what's causing the pain.
I believe we all have a much deeper, wisdom-self,
which knows a higher truth,
and by asking that question,
"Is there another way to see things?"
I'm just opening up.
And not looking for answers or content,
but just opening up.
And very often I find,
I'm looking at things in a different way,
I'm seeing things a different way.
And usually it's a way that's more easy,
there's a relief about it.
It's more compassionate-
There's a genuine humility about that.
Yeah, it's more loving towards the people concerned.
And it's also obviously right.
It's like "Oh, of course, why didn't I see that?"
The reason I didn't see it,
I was so caught in this particular way of looking at it.
So that's a question I always carry around,
and it's a key thing.
It's not asking "What is another way?"
Because that's trying to make something happen again.
It's open curiosity.
Is there perhaps?
Maybe the reason I'm feeling stuck, and unhappy,
is because I got caught in a certain
way of looking at things.
That's true,
it has a very different vibration to say
"What's another way I can do this?"
versus "Is there?"
No harm in asking.
Maybe, the reason things aren't quite working out,
is I'm stuck in a certain way of seeing.
So, possibly, is there another way of looking at it?
It's surprising what pops into the mind.
And funny,
the things that we're most attached to,
seems to me are seldom the things that
have that uh-huh time stand still
while we're participating in these things.
Those aren't the things.
Shopping doesn't make time stand still. (laughs)
Then most few things we've been told to be attached to.
We've been told this is important,
you need to have this in order to get by,
to get feel okay, or whatever.
And we buy into it.
We don't think.
We have a choice every moment,
about whether we buy into that thinking or not.
We don't always recognize the choice,
because we're so caught up in it,
but we can think "Is this thinking really serving me?"
When you find yourself wanting something.
And that's when I often use that question,
"Is there another way of looking at this?"
And I find, "Yes I don't really need this."
I'm just caught, I'm caught.
I believe if I have this it's gonna make me happy.
It comes back to those same questions again.
Again,
the things that generally juice us up
are the simple things:
having a conversation with someone,
a cup of tea, dancing, maybe singing,
maybe doodling or writing, or just daydreaming.
Following your heart. Following your heart.
These are the things
that really make time stand still,
these really are the things
that are going to carry us more toward
our sustainable, balanced self, aren't they?
And we don't know our heart.
Because we're so busy thinking, worrying, doing.
We don't give ourselves enough time to feel our heart.
And the heart is very quiet.
The heart doesn't speak in these loud
"Do this" message, "I think this,"
and "That person is a real, whatever they are."
The heart is just a feeling.
We need to be quiet,
and come back to the present.
We can only feel the heart in the present.
When you come back to the body,
you can then feel the heart,
you can feel what's there.
And whether it's a sense of
something that's withdrawing or attracting,
or a feeling of at ease.
Then the heart can speak to you and tell you.
I used to have a little sign above my desk,
it was actually a picture, it was a picture of a heart,
with lots of musical notes around it.
And that, for me,
oh there was a question mark in it, in the heart,
and that, for me, was a reminder.
Does it make my heart sing?
That's a very useful question I would hold up to myself.
If I was making a decision.
So I'd be on the phone,
and they'd be asking me "Could I do this, could I do that?"
Does that make my heart sing?
If it didn't make my heart sing, don't wanna do it.
What a simple, perfect,
little golden rule to live by.
Thank you.
My pleasure, thank you.
If you haven't already seen
our first conversation with Peter,
you might want to do so.
Meanwhile, our interview with Russell Targ
also focuses on letting go
of our identity with the material world
as the path to moving beyond suffering.
Until next time, thanks for watching.